Blender MDL Import-Export how-to:
---------------------------------

This toolkit for Blender editor will allow you to edit the existing 
game's MDLs by modifying their vertices and UVs (texture mapping).
It doesn't require installing or configuring, just learn about using!

1) Open the desired .MDL in the PackFile Explorer or VampED and then
extract it as "d3d.x" into the directory you wish. Remember to extract
the .MDL file from VPK archive into the same folder as the d3d.x and 
TGAs obtained as well if you want to export changes back to the model.
Any version from VampED v0.92 to PackFile Explorer v3.09 can do it.

2) Then you simply have to go to the "File" menu of the main Blender 
window, choose "Import" and then "Bloodlines_X (.X)". Select *.x model
you have extracted before with VampED, and load it.

3) Move the vertices as desired. DON'T create or destroy verts: the 
strips must match the original model! For PackFile Explorer's .X export,
don't move the vertices at "0,0,0", as they are the LODs vertices. 
Move the UV as desired too. Try to move separate chunks, you could use 
the Scale function on those selected chunks.

4) To export your changes, choose "Bloodlines (x.mdl)" in "Export" menu,
and then select the right output folder and the .MDL you've extracted.
You'll get the new .MDL with the same name as orignal one but with "_x"
at the end of it. You must put it into the right game's models/ subdir
(must match the one inside of source .vpk's path, create it if missing),
and remove "_x". The new .MDL will override the one inside of .VPK file.

I also have written another script for Blender. It saves the UV as well
as the vertices. All you have to do is choose in the Export script menu
the "Bloodlines_UV (x.mdl)", then choose the right out folder and the 
right MDL. The script will then try to find the number of vertices and 
compare that to the number of verts in Blender. If it fails, an error 
popup will show and the script will end. If it succeeds, another popup 
will tell you that the file was created successfully. You should have 
new UV in addition of the new coordinates and vertices, and that's it.


Have fun!
Dan (alias DDLullu)

// Improved and adapted for Bloodlines SDK by Psycho-A at 25.04.2019