------------------
Malkavian Whispers
------------------

Ambiguous:
----------
"Bone round in melody and word layed in rain."
"Cemetery runoff congealing at the door."
"Maggots love you. Trust me."
"Mast lay shrouded and the moon is melting."
"Try the corpse in the oven with peppers and fur."
"Souls draped in rotten tatters and Father dances in the dark."
"Make the tallow from the fat of a hanged man."

Danger:
-------
"Evil crouches."
"Death."
"DIE!"
(Evil laugh)
"I smell a rancid grave."
"You're in for it now."
"Rustling robes of the Reaper."
(Evil laugh) "They're coming."

Deluded:
--------
"All are blind whose eyes are closed."
"Look at it, bent like a calf for the butcher."
"The drove is a terrible mistress."
"Whishes and words sprout from the same seed."

Distrust:
---------
"A dark light from your death."
"Hemlock for the deceivers."
"It casts a crooked shadow."
"It has two mouths to lick from."

Gibberish:
----------
"Deep of the Atlantic, the Ark, dreaming, sleeping."
"Elkabo, elkabo, pixy queen where all is green."
"Can't see, can't see! Where have my eyes gone to?"
"Heloise said you. Cranberry sauce. Hotel foxtrot."
"Stop doing that. Mother shan't be too pleased. None too pleased."

Lying:
------
"It's a tangle of asps."
"Those lips bleed a putrid poison."
"Sealed with the kiss of swine."
"Rat tails, cat tails, coat tails, all tales."
"A trick with two tongues."

Quest:
------
"It's not fair! I wanted too."
"Pennies for your eyes in its pockets."
"Why is it troubled?"

Threat:
-------
"Ask about the free arsenic."
"Blood brings the vicious beast."
"I see daggers hang on his breath."
"The very thought falls to the flame."


----------
Radio Show
----------

Radio_loop_1:
-------------

Hello LA, you're up way past your bed time, aren't you? Hope you've slipped into something comfortable, I know I have. If you're new to town or just new to this whole radio thing, you're listening to The Deb of Night, the only girl who will spend the night with you and leave first thing in the morning, guaranteed. Well, looks like the boards are lighting up! Aren't I the popular one? Lets see, eeny, meeny, miny, moe, who will be the lucky... caller, you've got the first shot at Deb tonight! So who do I have the pleasure of speaking to? Hi Deb, this is... uh, Vigo. Vigo. So... Vigo, why are you up so late? Uhm, I'm working the night shift here at the... uh, yacht club. Aha. How many boats do you own, Vigo? Two, actually three. Uhm, one is... in the shop. I used to do a little yachting myself, what kind of yacht do you have? Uhm... you probably wouldn't know the brand, I... uh, bought them in Italy. Ah, l'Italia bella. Parlate Italiano? Uhm... yes. Arrivederci, Vigo. Caller two, you're on The Deb of Night. Be gentle. Hi Deb. Hello caller. Hi Deb. Is tonight a re-run? Deb?

Caller number three, what's keeping you up tonight? Deb, listen to me Deb. There're at it again and people have got to know. They've got to know because they don't know, they won't report this stuff on the news because they own the news! Hello Gomez, what's the latest conspiracy? Conspiracy? This goes beyond conspiracy, okay? There is no word for something as devious and secret as this, you understand? People need to hear this, they need to know the real story! You've got our undivided attention. Alright, as we all know the Americans established a Moon base back in the late seventies, that's no secret. But what most people don't know is that they have been conducting a dig. Not for resources, but for artifacts. I see. Well, it's no coincidence that the Chinese have started conducting space missions. You know why? I'll tell you why. The reason is because the Chinese are trying to stop the Americans from finding an ancient space probe send by the Beta-Centaurians. And why? Because the Beta-Centaurians are giving space technology to the Chinese to get back at the Andromedans - a.k.a. the Greys - for giving space technology to the Americans in the fifties. Fascinating. The American government's been putting more money into space. Don't you see what's happening? I can't believe I'm the only one that's figured it out! Am I the only person alive that can see what's going on? It's because the Andromedans and the Betas are going to be fighting their war in this galaxy through us, Deb. And the American people, the people of Earth, you people, cannot let this happen! It's Mu versus Atlantis all over again! Thank you Gomez, and that concludes the news portion of the show. Well, this girl's gotta pay her bills so it's time for a few commercials. But don't go anywhere, I'm just getting warmed up, or... should I say hot.

Friggin Chicken recently challenged several random people to a taste test between Friggin Chicken and the other leading chicken-flavoured products. Let's listen, for which one they prefer. Ma'am, care to participate in a taste test? Here, try this leading brand of chicken. Oh, oh my gosh! Is that week old fish? Now try this! Oh, oh! This is some good BEEP chicken! What is this? Sir. Take a test for me? Sure. Ah, oh, ah, phew, seriously, did you have these up your BEEP? Here, try this one. Hmmm, hey, mmm, mother-BEEP great chicken right there! What is this? It's Friggin Chicken. This is cat, right? Are you feeding me cat? Try this. Holy BEEP! BEEP that's good. What the BEEP is this BEEP? Nine out of ten people prefered Friggin Chicken over the competition. Why? Because that's some good BEEP chicken! I mean Friggin Chicken. Friggin Chicken! You'll swear it's the best you've ever had.

You loved the talking baby movie. And the talking pig. And even the talking car in that show, you know the one I'm talking about. But now prepare for the most hilarious talkingest normally mute object yet! He's Steve Cash, a New York banker and recent widower down on his luck. And ten makes one hundred. Here's your money, ma'am. Ma'am? I happen to have a glandular problem. That's it! I'm withdrawing all my millions from this bank. Cash! (laughter) She's an ATM machine with the soul of his dead wife. There's something familiar about this ATM machine. I LOVE YOU. Wow, those marketing guys are geniuses! (laughter) Together, they're learning to make the most out of their special situation. SO THAT GIRL FROM ACCOUNTING USED ME TODAY. Really? SHE WASN'T LIKE EVERYBODY ELSE. WHEN SHE PUSHED MY BUTTONS SHE WAS VERY GENTLE. Oh honey, if you don't stop I'm gonna have to make a deposit. (laughter) Transferring Cash. Wednesdays at 8:30 in the BMC.

(thunder) Say goodbye to yellow teeth and spots on your dirty dishes. (beeps) It's incredible! Look at that shine. Your smile... or these dinner plates? (laughter) Harnessing the secrets of ancient Egypt, now there is a dish washing detergent so powerful, it doesn't just leave your dishes spotless, it actually whitens your teeth. (hum) Patented time-released spiritoids remove caked-on food and grease and remain on the plate to be absorbed into your food that clean your teeth while you eat. (gunshot) Desetron, the dish washing detergent of the future, for cleaner plates and whiter teeth!

Last year Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds bought a sport utility vehicle. Three months later there were two seperate incidences of hit-and-runs by an unidentified SUV in his area. Is Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds to blame? Can you afford to take that chance? Can your children? Vote Republican senator Robert Thorne, a candidate that has never committed vehicular homicide. Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds has never publicly stated his opinion on child pornography. Is it because he is hiding something? Would you want a child pornographer voting on this nation's laws? Would you trust your children's future to someone like that? Vote Republican senator Robert Thorne, the candidate that is comitted to locking up child pornographers. Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds recently sued Senator Robert Thorne for accusing Redmonds of being a murderous child pornographer. But Redmonds had previously said he was against clogging up courts with frivolous law suits. Wouldn't this make him a hypocrite? Would you want a hypocrite as your next congressman? Would you want your children become hypocrites? Vote Republican Senator Robert Thorne, a candidate not accused of being a murderous child pornographer.

In a world where people live and die. Do you think you could just go in there and handle this by yourself? If that's what it takes. He was about to meet his greatest foe. Kill them all, all of them! And a girl. Hello! Hi. And a comic relief sidekick, who won't make it to act three. I picked the wrong month to cancel my life ensurance. No, don't say that. You're gonna make it. With the guy from that other movie that was slightly popular, and what's-her-name, from that show you sometimes watch. In a movie with two spectacular CGI battle sequences and an advertising campaign that will leave you no choice but to see this film. See it, because it's a movie and all your friends are going. In theatres friday and on DVD in three months.


Radio_loop_2:
-------------

Did ya miss me? Judging by the way the boards lit up, I'd say you couldn't live without me. You make me feel so desirable, LA. So many callers, so little time. If you don't get through to me tonight, don't let it break your heart; I'm here each and every a.m. So keep dialing those magic numbers, and just maybe you'll be as lucky as this caller. What's your name, night owl? 
Hello, Deb. This is Greg. Hello, Greg. Up late, aren't we? Well there Deb, I work a night shift here at the power plant, pretty much alone, only thing that gets me through this shift is your pretty little voice. Thank you, Greg. Why, I imagine if you was half as pretty as your voice, then... you're the prettiest woman in this city. Aren't you the gentleman? Ahh, I imagine you a lot, Deb... like I said, I'm all by myself, and it does get lonely. Sometimes a man can't help himself, especially when I hear you... it's like you're here, straddling my - Greg, there's a little thing called too much information.

Caller, you're whiling away the evening with the Deb of Night. Good evening, Deb. Yes, I think that's implied by the title of the show. (chuckle) Do you ever worry, Deb, that the world is going to end? I haven't felt that way since Brad Pitt got married. (chuckle) Do you have any idea how insignificant you are? When they start devouring the world, you will be but a bloodstain on their capes. I bet you say that to all the girls. There is a red star in the night sky. The blood of mortals and the blood of ages, all will be consumed. They are coming. These are the final nights. Okay! Well, good luck in the next election, Senator! Apologies to all you night owls out there, but this girl's got something she's got to take care of for the next few minutes. Here's a little music to keep you... up... if you get my meaning.

(honk) Phil's here. Gotta run. Great breakfast, honey. Have a good day, dear. I'm glad you liked the muffins. Hey, what's that on the counter? That's not my margarine! That's butter! It's - (slap) Bitch! You know I'm supposed to watch my LDL levels! (sobbing) I... I thought it would be a nice change! You couldn't even tell! You don't want a divorce! You're trying to kill me! I'm glad I slept with your sister! (door slams) I Thought It Was Margarine Grade B butter: all the rancid taste of margarine with all the saturated fat of butter.

You are on fire, Bill! I finally took your advice, and you were right! I feel more confident than ever. You da man. Isn't it great? I couldn't even believe it. We went out to dinner, and afterwards we started getting busy. I went into the bathroom to take it. I could feel it right away! Hell, you could see that tidal change in the toilet bowl! Vivisitrek: for when an ordinary drug-enhanced erection just isn't enough. Common side effects include fainting, tingling in extremities, temporary blindness, deathly pallor, time perception distortions, aggravated bladder syndrome, emotional incest, pronounced incontinence, delusions of grandeur, and elevated risk of stroke.

Grandpa, will you take me to Space Burger? Space Burger, huh? You know, when I was your age, space was mostly a mystery. We didn't know what was up there. Why, I thought there were little alien kids on Mars that might be watching me. Yeah, I used to make signs for them saying, "Hello Martians!" or "Give me a ride on your rocket craft!" 'Course, I was young and naive thinking Martians could read English. (chuckle) Everyone knew Martians communicated telepathically through space operators on their moonbase! Billy, what did I tell you about talking to Grandpa? But I want to go to Space Burger! Space Burger! This looks like a job for Commander Mom! Report to the space van. Oh boy! We can drop Grandpa off at the home on the way there. Of course you don't see Martians on space probes. (chuckle) Everyone knows Martians live in invisible domes! Space Burger: food for the space age, not old age.

Last year Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds bought a sport utility vehicle. Three months later there were two seperate incidences of hit-and-runs by an unidentified SUV in his area. Is Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds to blame? Can you afford to take that chance? Can your children? Vote Republican senator Robert Thorne, a candidate that has never committed vehicular homicide. Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds has never publicly stated his opinion on child pornography. Is it because he is hiding something? Would you want a child pornographer voting on this nation's laws? Would you trust your children's future to someone like that? Vote Republican senator Robert Thorne, the candidate that is comitted to locking up child pornographers. Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds recently sued Senator Robert Thorne for accusing Redmonds of being a murderous child pornographer. But Redmonds had previously said he was against clogging up courts with frivolous law suits. Wouldn't this make him a hypocrite? Would you want a hypocrite as your next congressman? Would you want your children become hypocrites? Vote Republican Senator Robert Thorne, a candidate not accused of being a murderous child pornographer.

Money troubles? Need cash quick? Why not try mugging someone? These are exactly the kind of questions that criminals are asking themselves right now. Did you know that the government requires you to wait ten days for a gun? Why, in that time a criminal could kill your family fifty times over. So how does a law-abiding citizen like yourself get a theft-deterrent system in their hands in the next hour? Come to Loophole Lenny's! We've got antique military weaponry from blunderbusses to World War One grenades. Modern muggers may be stronger and faster than they used to be, but that doesn't mean they can take a slug fired by a Civil War era pistol any better. And if you're the kind of person that can't sleep at night knowing serial rapists might be in your front yard, we've got German sniper rifles approved by the Kaiser himself that'll make picking them off one by one from the safety of your roof no problem. Buy a weapon this month and we'll throw in an ammo belt with the Constitution printed on it free of charge. Loophole Lenny's: defending your tomorrow with the weapons of yesterday, today.

Aww, would you look at this? What's that? "Plague of locusts descend on small Indian town." Geez, I can't imagine what that must be like. And look at this: "Civil war still raging between ethnic factions in Eastern Europe." Yeah, heard about that. And in Zimbabwe, they got to use ox carts for ambulances. That's terrible. Hey, it's a good thing we live in the U.S. It sure is, buddy. Hey, bartender. Two more U.S. Ales? U.S. Ale: welcome to the united states of inebriation.


Radio_loop_3:
-------------

The moon is out, everyone's in dreamland and you've tuned into The Deb of Night. Nobody to fall asleep next to you? Go ahead and pull the radio into bed, that's what I'm here for. And hey, why don't you call me some time? Area code 323, KL5-KTRK. Looks like somebody's been waiting in the queue quite a while to speak to yours truly. So caller, why aren't you asleep? Uhm... uh, insects. Insects... as in you have an insect problem? Or chirping crickets are keeping you up? Or you have nightmares about them? Help me out here. No, no, no. Don't you know? When you fall asleep, they can crawl into your mouth or your ears, or... or your nose. You-you can't prevent it if you're asleep. I-I mean, you - what can you do? Are there any scientists out there listening to this? Uhm, I-I read something, I-I don't know where, but do you know the average person eats several pounds of insects a year? The majority of that weight is composed of roaches, ants and spiders. Just knowing that as soon as you close your eyes, a big fat centipede is gonna drop into your mouth and crawl down your throat, I-I-I can't do it. I never sleep at night! You know, they voluntarily eat insects in some countries. Yeah, well, those countries probably need Jesus. So you never sleep at night, I assume you do sleep, right? I-I-I sleep at work. And what exactly do you do? I'm a middle school teacher. That would explain why my nephew invested that twenty I sent him for his birthday on magic beans. It's always good to know that the future of our country is in good hands, isn't it? Oh boy.

Let's see who else we got. Caller, what do you do for a living? I'm Roger. Okay. And what do you do, Roger? Uhm, I'm a writer, Deb. So have you written any movies I might have seen? Well, I actually haven't finished any screenplays yet. I see. So have you done any other kinds of writing? Well, just some outlines right now, but I've got some really good ideas for some stories that are crawling around in the old noggin. So if you haven't really written anything, how can you call yourself a writer? Because I once fixed my toilet doesn't make me a plumber, right? Well, you see... Is there anyone in this city that doesn't call themselves a writer or actor or a director? Don't you think you're doing a disservice to those who actually make their living in those art forms by deeming yourself something you're not, or not even trained to do? Uhm, well, I think I'm pretty good at knowing what's good writing from bad writing. Oh, wouldn't that make you a critic? Let's see if anyone else agrees. Line two, are you ready for a menage a trois? Sure thing, Deb. And would you please state what you do for a living? I'm a personal assistant for a producer at Parasite Studios. Perfect. Do you read a lot of screenplays? Don't get me started. Well, for our writer on the phone, here's your big chance to pitch your screenplay. Is that okay, line two? Sell me, dude. Well, uhm... okay. So, uh, my story's about this guy - You don't say. Okay, okay, so this guy, he's... well he's like a... an FBI agent, but, y'know, he doesn't really work for the main FBI. And, uh, he's got this partner who's new and really cute, but she's also a really good agent. And they're, like, assigned to this bizarre case where people are being killed in really strange ways. Uh-huh. And then, like, something happens, and the girl agent gets kidnapped by the killer. "Something happens." Yeah, well, I haven't quite figured it out yet, but, like, the guy agent notices, like, how the killer seems to know everything he's doing, like, one step ahead of him. And then there's this kind of... you know, weird chase scene, and then, like, we find out that the guy's got two personalities. And, like, he finds out in the end that he's the killer! And then... he's kidnapped his own partner! Well line two, what do you think? You gonna option it or not? Uh, writer dude? Roger. Uh, Roger. Would you like my professional opinion? Yeah. Where are you from? Uhm, Wisconsin. Okay. I want you to get all your stuff together, and then I want you to move back to Wisconsin. That's a little cold, line two. That's Hollywood, baby. Maybe it's just too good for you. Uh, no dude, it's not. Break it up, you two. Final thoughts, guys? Wisconsin. I have some other things I'm working on too. I've got some pretty good ideas for video games, I think. If anyone's interested in hiring me, my number's 213 - Sorry Roger, the only one that gets to give out their number on this show is me. And if anyone was thinking of asking what I'm wearing, that number again is 323-KL5-KTRK. We're going to take a short commercial break, but that doesn't mean you can stop thinking about me. Don't go anywhere, boys.

Does your penis always seem to be getting in the way? I got the last of the groceries, honey. I just need to close the trunk. (trunk slams, scream of pain) One more nail and this bird house will be as good as new! (hammer strike, scream of pain) I'm sorry, sir. This dressing room is for women only. You don't have to let this happen to you. Hi, I'm doctor Fred Tuck. Don't let your penis interfere with the quality of your life anymore. I have performed over three hundred sex changes in my career, and not one of my patients has ever asked for their tackle box back. Come to Tuck's Sex Exchange in the next month, and I'll give you a free estimate. Don't let your piece interfere with your peace of mind. Tuck's Sex Exchange: located off Beverly Drive. Look for the sign with Toothy, the surgical saw.

Tired of sluggish internet access? Mom! The internet's all slow again. I'm not your mom. I'm the creature that evolved out of your mom. Sick of unwanted spam? Oh... oh... another e-mail message from my old college roommate, Rod Hugeous. Oh... oh my! Computer problems make it frustrating to log on? Error 432: network access remote server memory allocation assessment table exceeded. Hard drive reformatting will now commence... WHAT? Looking for something that requires no log-ons, no unwanted e-mail, coherent sentences, and no technical problems whatsoever? Read a book. Books: the original internet.

Terrorists are prepared to destory the largest dam in America... again. When the bomb goes off, this Hoover will be caught with his panties down! And only this renegade cop and his ex-wife's manicurist stand between destruction and unexpected love. I'll just file you as DOA. (gunshot) This summer all bets are off, the heat is on, the fix is in, the dogs are out, the game is up, the chips are down, the stakes are high, the odds are low, the danger is huge, the payoff is slim, friendships will be made, rules will be broken, wrongs will be righted, and no unturned stone will be left... uh... get ready to be turned inside out and upside down. (explosion) Hoover 2: Hydro-electric Boogaloo. The best dam movie you'll see this year.

When I'm grinding the reverse poindexter 540 to ollie northbound the contraband, I can't think about being bloated. (roll) That's why every morning I down a Pound Ground, the gentle extreme laxative sports drink, because when you're pulling a wicked skull cross 720, you don't want anything to slow you down.


Radio_loop_4:
-------------

Deb's back, and she's got a fresh cup of coffee ready to take it into the AM. In case you don't know it, you're tuned in to The Deb of Night on KTRK. I'm your lovely hostess, feel free to fantasize about me all you want. But please, don't send any more drawings. The lines are all full, so why don't I provide some release? Line three, you're speaking to me. S'up, Deb? And what have you been up to tonight, caller? Wink, wink. Ha, ha, ha, I get it. Ha, I'm amped up Deb, whooh! What's the occasion? It's a weekday! Touche. Hey Deb, ha, ha, hey Deb, ha, hey Deb. Yes general? Hoho, bad. I had this amazing idea, I thought - You ready for this? All night. Y-You know all those problems we been having in the mideast? Yes. Those damned Virginians. Okay, okay. So I got figured this out, right? Okay, okay. So if we want peace in the middle-east, think about it. What makes people peaceful? Smoking the sensimilla. And what brings people together? Pizza. So like think on this. For like half the cost of one of them blockbuster bombs, we can like find a pizza and enough herb for like everybody over there. And have like, baam, instant best buds, ma'am. Just say no, dude. Uhm, and extra peperoni. Ey, you guys take credit cards?

Moving on, line four, what's keeping you up tonight? Deb. I'm about to reveal something that... I'm putting my life on the line. But the people, the people of this city and this country and this planet, they have the right to know this, do you understand? What's the word, Gomez. This is serious. There are a lot of organisations who would do anything in their power to keep this a secret. I don't doubt. Deb, Deb, this is really serious now, can I finish? Alright. Everyone knows they've got cameras at every stoplight so the government can keep tabs on our comings and goings. But did you know that they then sold access to their data bases to the Illuminati, who has been using that information to compile a list of the most frequently travelled routes and then opening new locations of their well known chain of coffee houses in the most profitable locations? And did you also know that they use those funds to surpress fusion and solar power? It all makes sense now. Well they, the Illuminati, control all the worlds energy, and because they monitor all of our energy usage, they can tell who is not watching television, and therefore know who is not receiving the sublimal messages, that they send to keep the sheep, putting their money in banks away from their secret headquarters, a.k.a. Wyoming? Amazing. Anything else that you've turned up lately? As a matter of fact, and again I shouldn't be talking about this, but I believe that it's everybody's right to know that recycling is a myth. All that they do with those bottles and cans is collect DNA samples from your saliva, so that they can clone you. And train your clone to assasinate you and assume your identity, should you go poking your nose into the whole global warming business. Thank you Gomez, I hate to interrupt this mentally stimulating conversation, but the people who keep me chained to the console at this radio station, in my underwear no less, want you to spend money on this stuff.

Last year Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds bought a sport utility vehicle. Three months later there were two seperate incidences of hit-and-runs by an unidentified SUV in his area. Is Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds to blame? Can you afford to take that chance? Can your children? Vote Republican senator Robert Thorne, a candidate that has never committed vehicular homicide. Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds has never publicly stated his opinion on child pornography. Is it because he is hiding something? Would you want a child pornographer voting on this nation's laws? Would you trust your children's future to someone like that? Vote Republican senator Robert Thorne, the candidate that is comitted to locking up child pornographers. Democratic candidate Michael Redmonds recently sued Senator Robert Thorne for accusing Redmonds of being a murderous child pornographer. But Redmonds had previously said he was against clogging up courts with frivolous law suits. Wouldn't this make him a hypocrite? Would you want a hypocrite as your next congressman? Would you want your children become hypocrites? Vote Republican Senator Robert Thorne, a candidate not accused of being a murderous child pornographer.

Preparing for a business sales pitch but don't know how to sell your ideas? Try Virtual Meeting! So if we divert advertising away from expensive television spots and spread it around full page ads in the leading men's magazines we can - That's an idea but here is one I think we should do. But I didn't finish! Yes, that's a good point but everyone listen to my idea. But I think - That's true, however, I don't think that our target market will be willing to accept such a radical approach. Listen to what I have to say on this subject, are you ready? Good. This is a winner. And Virtual Meeting doesn't just help with meetings. They can also prepare you with debating your ideas on the internet. So, I think if the Democrats are going to have a chance at the office they're going to have to embrace the more liberal sect of the voter block. Shut up, BEEP-tard. I majored in political science, I think I know what I am talking about here. Mouthing out loud, you are so gay. Virtual Meeting! The only meeting preparation device to own. That was a good idea which was mine originally. BEEP-tard.

In 1984 a generation of children were introduced to a toy that became an instant classic. Twenty years later, that toy is transforming to blend into a whole new environment. Hey, Bob, right? M-mind if I borrow your stapler? (transform sound) You want staples? Get some of these, Execucon! (tacker sound) Nahhh! Take control of the noble Office Bots, as they wage-slave their secret war against the evil Execucons. Hey, I'm gonna be here pretty late. Do you mind if I get a cup of that coffee? Crapitron, transform! (transform sound) Coffee is for closers, Office Bots. (russle sound) Collect thirty different corporate robots as they battle for workplace supremacy! Look out Optical Mouse Prime, it's Cellphoner! I've got your number employees and you're all getting called in this weekend. (transform sound) Office Bots! Transform and clock in. Deformers!

You live. (bird singing) You die. (bell ringing) And sometimes you get brought back to life. (thunder and screaming) This fall. I'm afraid I can't see too well these says. Do you think you could go to the nearest village and pick me up a loaf of bread? Breaaaad! Gooood! The new horror RPG from Troika games. Breaaaad! Oh, I can tell you were the baker is, stranger. But before I do, would you mind picking up my little girl from the lake? You are The Monster. (scream) Or are you? If you wanna enter this bakery, you'll have to defeat me! And this door. (door closing) Frankenstein: Bread Bust. Coming soon to a PC near you. Gaaaame! Gooood.


Radio_loop_5:
-------------

Still awake? Something on your mind? Give me a call, 323-KL5-KTRK. Ask to speak to that cute one. Hey, all you night owls! Is the human race going crazy or is it just me? Seems like all you hear is bad news lately. Anybody feel the same way? Feel like the world's cracking at the seams? Why don't we make that the topic for tonight? And if that doesn't work, you can all go back to calling in with the usual pervert stuff. Line five, you're on with The Deb of Night. So tell me, is society going to hell or not? I think so, Deb. And why is that? Well, for one I lost my job a month ago and our managment gave themselves a bonus for it. I'm sorry to hear it. And just the other night I happen to look out my window here in Santa Monica, which used to be a nice neighborhood, I saw the local dinner where I've been eaten my breakfast for years get shot to pieces. Can you believe that? Like noone cares about anyone anymore. I hear it. And my neighbor's boy. Sheesh, he's been using speed since he's in junior high, steals from his parents. That's a shame. Yeah, yeah, you know there was a time when this sort of thing just didn't happen. You know why? Why is that? Well, because a man could beat a woman and children when they got out of line! They didn't even have to be blood, you could just slap the little bastard! Hah, the good old days. Why don't you hit the activity room and reminisce some more, grandpa? 

Anyone have any musings that don't end up in assault charges. Yah, hi. Wow, here is a rare event, a female perspective that isn't my own! Go ahead, sister. Uhmmm, khm, I just wanted to say that I agree with you for the most part. Things have really started to suck in the last few years. Mmhmmm. Yah, it's like... I can't see myself bringing a child into this world, you know? I hear you. Except if it was, like, Ash River's baby. Oh, he is so amazing, Deb! I would, like, populate a mini van for him. Oh my god! Ya, but what are the chances of that of that happening? I don't know. But I'm, like, at his club every night, ha. Okay, but back to the topic. Oh, and this one time I was working as a waitdress at this award show and I served him a drink and he told me "Thanks, beautiful." And there was, like, a moment definately something there, you know? Sure girl, but (beep) tonights topic isn't Ash Rivers. Ya, well. That's probably really good because all of you other females, better stay the hell away from him! You know what I mean? I'm glad to provide a public forum for the whacked out of both sexes. Let's try to stay on topic, shall we?

Deb of Night? That's me. I recently found out I was a vampire. Oho, I was one of those once, and then it was November first. It's not a joke, I'm really worried about this. Aha. This girl at the club took me to the bathroom and she did something to me! Back in my club days we used to call that a favour. Oh caller, could you hold on, I've got Frankenstein on the line. Frankenstein, something you wanna to add to this conversation? Roaaaar! I see. Your rebutal, caller. I am not lying, it happened to me. It could happen to anyone. Roaaaar! Roaaaar! Ooh, good point. You want some advice? Wash off the eyeliner, put on something that is not black and go get a tan at the beach. Sheesh, The Deb of Night show does not endorse the goth lifestyle and take it from Deb, pretending you're a vampire only impresses people with similar physical ickyness.

Next caller. Deb, I think the world's been messed up, is messed up, and will continue to be messed up. Oh, an optimist. Now, bear with me but I know what the cause of all the worlds problems is. Nipples on TV? Exactly! Nudity? Not too much nudity, not enough nudity. Clothes make a person dishonest. They're hiding their true selves away under them. Clothes promote problems, like class and sense of superiority and concealed weapons. Why? How much do you think we spend on clothes as a people? What if that money was going toward science. Why, we'd be living in a futuristic techno world by now! Have you even been to a nudist colony? Not attractive. The fact that you think it should be is a side effect of the prurient media. You're not de-sensitized to nudity. Just think. If the man at the movie consession wasn't wearing his pants today you'd storm out of the theatre in a tiffy! But in the new world, it'd be "Popcorn and a medium soda, please." No, I think what would happen is I'd lose my appetite. And isn't obesity one of our nations biggest problems? Another benefit of nudity. And what all about that hullabaloo that people make when a person walks around the way mother nature made him on a brisk spring afternoon. Arrested for public indecency? Why, in a nude world it'd be common place. Folks would ask you, how many people did you expose yourself to today? As proud as I am of my girls, I think I'm going to limit them to private appearances.

Next caller. Deb, this is it! This time I stumbled across something that is bigger than anything you could possibly imagine. A threat to the entire human race's existance. Ah, Gomez! You know it's been a bad night when I've been looking forward to your call. Deb, nothing can prepare the world for this. This is the biggest story in the history of humanity ever! Ever Deb, how I found this out I can't say but I'm risking my life to tell the world this. Are you prepared for this? S-sure. People of Los Angeles, vampires walk among us. Ugh, not vampires again. Hear me out, Deb! Vampires are among us and have been since the dawn of time. And Los Angeles. Well, there's more vampires per person here than anywhere else in the world. People are killed by vampires all the time but their secret vampire society covers it up. Who blew up that warehouse in Santa Monica? Vampires! What happened to the crew of the Elizabeth Dane? Vampires! Want to know what happened to that sarcophagus that dissappeared? Vampires took it. The prince of vampires to be more specific. He wants to use it against a league of other vampires that have been trying to get a foothold in our city. And get this! There could be an even older vampire in the sarcophagus. An ancient super vampire! Right, vampires, they're everywhere. You can't throw a rock in this city without hitting a vampire. It's the truth, Deb. The undead are all around us. We need to rise up and destroy our evil vampire overlords before it's too late! You heard him folks. Gather up your crosses, garlic and neck braces. Oh, brother. Well, Deb's not undead but the sun will be up soon and she's dead tired. She's going home to get some hard earned R&R. But don't worry. She'll be back same time same station tomorrow night. Until then fans, don't let the vampires bite. (advertisements repeating)


------------
Loading Tips
------------

The World of Darkness is a place where immortal monsters pull the strings of humanity. Violence and despair are common here. The world is bleak, but escape is an ever-present commodity - perhaps too present....

The Embrace: The act of transforming a mortal into a vampire.

Not only do vampires hide from mortals, they hide from themselves as well, pretending they are not the horrors they have truly become.

Kindred: The race of vampires as a whole, or a single vampire.

Your Haven: Prince LaCroix has arranged for you to use a Camarilla safehouse in Santa Monica as your haven. Here you will find some essentials, such as your computer for email. This will serve as your base of operations.

Violating the Masquerade by revealing aspects of supernatural existence to humankind puts you at risk of ambush by human vampire hunters, and invites the wrath of your fellow Kindred. Each breach of the Masquerade costs one Masquerade point. If you are reduced to zero Masquerade points, you will lose the game.

Elysium: You are entering Elysium. An Elysium area is the domain of a powerful vampire. Here, you will be unable to attack or use your vampiric Disciplines, with the exception of using Bloodbuff while lockpicking. You will occasionally have the opportunity to feed in Elysium areas however, and draining mortals dry will result in a loss of Humanity.

Combat Area: You are entering a combat area. In combat areas you are free to use the full force of your vampiric Disciplines without incurring any Masquerade violations. Likewise, there are often no "innocents" in a combat zone. You can never incur a Masquerade violation or lose humanity in a combat area.

Vampires must step lightly and be ever mindful of the Masquerade; were the human race as a whole ever to turn its attention to the Kindred, the Children of Caine would be quickly wiped out. Superstition is the vampires' best weapon. By enforcing mortals' disbelief, by cultivating a smug belief in reason, by dismissing vampires' presence as the fancies of children and lunatics, the Kindred allow the mass of kine to do the work of shielding them from the few mortals who do know that vampires walk the night.

The largest sect of vampires in existence, the Camarilla, concerns itself with the Masquerade, thereby hoping to maintain a place for Kindred in the modern nights. The Camarilla is an open society; it claims all vampires as members (whether they want to belong or not), and any vampire may claim membership, regardless of lineage.

Rumored to have its origins in a medieval death cult, the Sabbat is greatly feared by Kindred who do not belong to it. The sect is monstrous and violent, and no longer clings to any trappings of human philosophy or morality. Members instead revel in their vampiric unlives. Sometimes referred to as the Black Hand, the Sabbat actively seeks the overthrow of the Traditions, the destruction of the Camarilla, and the subjugation of humankind.

Prince: The prince is, to put it simply, the vampire who has enough power to hold domain over a city, codify the laws for that city and keep the peace. Such a position is typically held by an elder, for who but an elder has the necessary personal charisma and power to take and hold domain in a metropolis?

Clan: A group of vampires who share common characteristics passed on by the Blood. There are 13 known clans, all of which were reputedly founded by members of the Third Generation.

Humanity: Humanity is a moral code that allows Kindred to retain their mortal sensibilities in the face of their transformation into parasitic monsters. In essence, it is what keeps a vampire from becoming a mindless animal, enslaved by their thirst for blood.

Blood is all-important to the Kindred, for it is both the crux of their existence and the seat of their power. Mortal food, mortal air, mortal love - all of these things are meaningless to a vampire. Blood is the Kindred's only passion, and without it, they will quickly wither and fall dormant.

Vampires have long been feared as rapacious monsters of the night - terrible black forms sweeping out of the darkness to steal infants from their cribs and ravish the blood of innocents. Vampires are also creatures of deadly beauty, immense passion and predatory sensuality. The most important characteristic all vampires share, though, is their damnation. More important than any lineage, clan, sect or cause is the fact that all vampires are undead predators. Fealties and duties fall second to the inescapable urge of hunger.

Vampires are inherently creatures of the city, though some claim this is a matter of decision rather than nature. Urban landscapes offer everything a Kindred could want: near-infinite supplies of blood, enough contact to satisfy the most social of vampires (and enough seclusion to satisfy the most isolationist), and refuge from the werewolves who linger in the rural lands beyond the city lights.

Kindred in need of powerful servitors often cultivate ghouls. Created by giving a mortal or animals a sip of vampiric vitae without first draining their blood, ghouls most commonly serve as minions of their vampiric masters. Although not so powerful as Kindred, ghouls may use the ingested vitae to become preternaturally strong and resilient.

Clan Malkavian: Even other Damned fear the Malkavians. The cursed blood of their clan has polluted their minds, with the result that every last Malkavian across the world is incurably insane. What's worse, a Malkavian's madness can take nearly any form, from overpowering homicidal tendencies to near-catatonia.

Clan Nosferatu: While other vampires still look human and may travel in mortal society, Nosferatu are twisted and deformed by the curse of vampirism. As such, Nosferatu find themselves loathed and ostracized by the other Children of Caine, who consider them disgusting and interact with them only when they must.

Any Kindred who wishes to blend into mortal society must obey its laws. Criminal acts - assault, burglary, murder - are met with brutal force from human law enforcement.

Experience is gained by completing quests. Extra experience may be awarded during the course of a quest, for completing individual goals, finding special routes or alternate solutions.

Refer to your Quest Log (default key: L) to track where you need to go and to whom you need to speak.

The Defense feat and Bashing soak feat both add to your defense against bullets. Additionally, all damage you receive from bullets is automatically reduced by fifty percent.

Use the Feed key (default key: F) to feed on an unwilling victim. If the victim is in combat with you, he will have a chance to defend. Otherwise, your feed attempt will automatically succeed. A high Unarmed combat feat makes it harder for enemy combatants to defend against your feed attack.

New dialog options will appear if your Persuasion feat is high enough. These options will be displayed in blue text. Selecting these Persuasion lines will present you with further dialog options, all geared toward advancing your agenda.

You can use the Seduction feat in dialog to feed and otherwise get what you want from people. If you seduce a human you may feed without fear of violating the Masquerade. Seduction lines appear in special pink print.

A high Intimidate feat will give you special dialog options. These will be displayed in green text. Certain characters are more easily intimidated than others.

The Melee combat feat directly affects how much damage you can do with melee weapons. It also determines how easily an opponent may block, dodge, or counter your melee strikes.

The Ranged combat feat directly affects how much damage you can do with firearms. It also determines how easily vampires and other supernaturals can defend against your ranged attacks.

To sneak, Crouch (default key: CTRL), stay in the shadows, and watch the light meter. The higher your Sneaking feat, the harder it will be for enemies to hear and see you. You must be crouched to gain any benefit from Sneaking.

Your Defense feat is checked automatically every time you are attacked. As a vampire, you may defend against melee, unarmed attacks, and even bullets with your Defense feat.

Many factors contribute to your defense in combat. Spending experience to raise your Wits, Dodge, or Stamina will reduce the damage you take in combat. Clothing and body armor also help reduce damage.

Killing innocent humans will result in a loss of Humanity. A lower Humanity rating puts you at greater risk of frenzy. Additionally, your dialog options may change as you sink further into your monstrous nature.

Humans are the primary source of sustenance for Kindred. You can also get a small amount of blood from rats, except when you are a Ventrue. Blood packs can be used as well, if you can find them.

One of the vampire's greatest feats is the ability to reconstitute their broken body. By focusing the blood they can close buckshot wounds and regrow lost appendages. The vampiric body heals all wounds over time. Feeding will speed this process.

Urban areas have maps located on bus stops. Use the maps to see an overhead view of the area.

Frenzy occurs when the Beast within takes control. A frenzied vampire is a ferocious killing machine, desperate for survival.
Frenzy will give you tremendous destructive power, but you will lose all control of your actions.

If you find yourself pursued by human law enforcement, hide. Police will hunt you, but will give up if they cannot find you.
You will receive a message when police give up the hunt.

Sewers offer great protection and secrecy to vampires who wish it.

Take great care when feeding in the midst of mortals. You must not be seen, lest you betray the Masquerade.

In the Character Editor (default key: C) hover the mouse pointer over a feat you wish to increase. The Attributes and Abilities that contribute to that feat will appear highlighted. Increasing these Attributes and Abilities will increase the feat.

Tomes of knowledge can be found throughout the game. Using these manuals will permanently increase one of your stats.
Each manual has requirements for use. Your Research feat, as well as the stat to be raised, will need to meet these requirements before you can use the manual.

The vampire may push its body to the peak of human prowess for a short time, for a price in blood. Bloodbuff represents the vampire's innate ability to enhance the physical attributes. If you fail to pick a lock, use Bloodbuff. The temporary increase in Dexterity will boost your Lockpicking feat.

The Sabbat has recently increased its activity, actively vying for Chicago, Atlanta, Washington DC, and other elder-controlled cities. Animalistic and monstrous, the sect has swarmed like locusts over the East Coast and southern borders of the United States. Its influence in Canada has also increased, and it appears as if the Sabbat is realizing a grand enfilade, surrounding the United States and cutting off all access except that which it grants.

Reputedly the "father of all vampires", Caine is more myth than reality in the modern nights. Some of the Methuselahs, as well as certain members of the Sabbat, claim to have met a being who referred to himself as Caine, but the story has filtered through so many individuals and layers of the Jyhad that no one can precisely tell where truth ends and fabrication begins.

Whispers in Sabbat covens and Camarilla salons alike speak of turmoil in the East, of armies of clanless rabble, of vampires whose blood is so thin that they cannot Embrace, of meetings with mysterious elders whose vast power betrays no discernable lineage, of black crescent moons and full moons red as blood. All, say the believers, are omens that the Final Nights are approaching, and that the end of all things is nigh.

Use a cab to travel between cities and other distant locales. As new areas become available, they will be added to the cab map.

Use the maps in the sewers to travel between cities and other distant locales. As new areas become available, they will be added to the sewer maps.

Childe: A vampire created through the Embrace - the childe is the progeny of the sire. This term is often used derogatorily, indicating inexperience. Plural: childer.

Fledgling: A newly created vampire.

Antediluvian: A member of the dreaded Third Generation, one of the eldest Kindred in existence.

A prince does not "reign" over a city. His role is more like that of an overseer or magistrate than that of a monarch. He is the judge who settles disputes between Kindred, the ultimate authority on the Traditions as they relate to his city, and the keeper of the peace. Above all, his concern is the Masquerade and its preservation.

Most mortals, enshrouded in superstition and science, remain blind to the vampires in their midst - but some do know, and fear. Mortals who hunt the Kindred are known as witch-hunters, after the Inquisitors of old

While the job description may vary from city to city, the sheriff's prime job is to be the prince's "enforcer", the vampire who hauls offenders off to court, keeps order in the streets, and generally stands ready to assist with the "muscle" of ruling."

Anarchs are vampires who reject the Traditions of Caine and the dictates of the elders who enforce them. Ironically, elders grudgingly afford anarchs some degree of status, due to the anarchs' ability to obtain power in spite of the elders' opposition. Anarchs are also respected for their passion and drive, which few elder Kindred, mired as they are in their age and dissatisfaction, can muster. Ultimately, however, most Kindred see anarchs as jackals, scavenging their unlives from what slips through the elders' fingers.

Primogen: The primogen are the assembled elders of each clan in a city. In theory, primogen represent their clans among the political body of the elders, but in practice the primogen are more often an "old vampires' club" and an incestuous nest of treachery and favor-currying.

Whispers circulate through the Kindred world about "lesser" clans or "bloodlines" that branched off from their parent genealogies somewhere in the nights of history. One of these are the flesh eating Nagaraja."

Caitiff: The Caitiff are the clanless vampires, outcast by other Kindred and despised by those who bother to notice them at all. Vampires may become clanless either by having no idea of their sires' identities (and thus having no sense of lineage) or by being of such weak generation that no identifying clan characteristics are discernable. Caitiff are almost universally regarded as bastard children and orphans, though some rise to a degree of prominence among the anarchs

Some Kindred believe that a Reckoning is at hand, that the powers of Heaven are preparing at last to judge the vampires and what they have made of the world. Others speak of the Winnowing, or Gehenna - the night when the most ancient vampires will rise to consume their progeny, taking their lessers' cursed blood to sate their own hunger.

One of the most wondrous and terrible properties of Kindred vitae is its ability to enslave nearly any being who drinks of it three times. Each sip of a particular Kindred's blood gives the Kindred in question a greater emotional hold over the drinker. If a victim drinks three times from the same Kindred, she falls victim to the state known as the "blood bond". Put simply, blood bond is one of the most potent emotional sensations known.

Clan Brujah: Largely composed of rebels, both with and without causes. Individualistic, outspoken and turbulent, Brujah hold social change near to their undead hearts, and the clan's ranks contain some of the most violent of the Camarilla Kindred. Most other vampires perceive the Brujah as nothing more than punks and miscreants, but the truth of the matter is that genuine passion lies behind their polemics.

Clan Tremere: Whether dreaded, mistrusted, feared or reviled, the insular vampires of Clan Tremere are anything but ignored. Those who have heard of the clan's doings are typically suspicious of the Tremere, and with good reason. Through their own artifice, they have mastered a form of vampiric sorcery, complete with rituals and spells, that is as potent - if not more so - than any other power of the Blood

Clan Ventrue: From time out of mind, Ventrue has been the clan of leadership, enforcing the ancient Traditions and seeking to shape the destiny of the Kindred. In nights of old, Ventrue were chosen from nobles, merchant princes or other wielders of power. In modern times the clan recruits from wealthy "old money" families, ruthless corporate climbers, and politicians. Whatever the origin, Ventrue preserve stability and maintain order for the Camarilla.

The Unarmed combat feat determines how easily you may feed on the unwilling. A higher Unarmed combat feat will make it easier for you to feed during battle. The Unarmed combat feat also directly affects how much damage you can do with your fists and claws, and how easily an opponent may block, dodge, or counter these blows.

The Haggle feat modifies all buy and sell prices. Vendor prices are automatically adjusted based on your Haggle feat. With a higher Haggle feat you will be able to sell items for more money, and buy items for less. When financial matters are being discussed, a high Haggle feat might allow you special dialog options.

Hunger can induce frenzy, as can the fear and anger caused by taking physical damage. The risk of frenzy relates directly to your Humanity. A vampire in touch with their former humanity can keep the Beast at bay; a craven undead killer will succumb more frequently. This risk is compounded by hunger. Feed often and maintain your Humanity to prevent frenzy.

If a Discipline timer is running, activating the Discipline again will add the full time on top of the remaining time.

Use the "End Disciplines" key (default key: F8) to shut off a Discipline while it is running.

Stamina adds to the Bashing soak feat. As a vampire, each point of Bashing soak reduces the damage you receive from bullets and blunt melee weapons.

Disciplines typically have a lesser effect on vampires and other supernaturals. The exact effect varies from being to being. You can expect more powerful supernaturals to have a higher degree of resistance.

While in melee combat, you can block (default key: Tab) to give yourself a bonus to Defense. This bonus is equal to your Dexterity.

The Lethality of a weapon can be used to gauge its effectiveness against vampires. The higher the Lethality, the more difficult it will be for vampires to defend against the weapon.

Holding down the different directional movement keys while attacking will trigger different melee attacks. Each directional movement key triggers a different combination of melee attacks. Varying your melee attacks will keep a defender off-balance. If you use the same attack repeatedly, the defender will learn to anticipate your attack, and is more likely to deflect your blows.

You can raise your Humanity like any other character stat, by spending experience.

The Damage Potential of a weapon is how much damage the weapon can do in your hands. This number is adjusted by your Ranged or Melee combat feat. The higher your combat feat, the more damage you can do.

Vampires are extraordinarily resilient to gunfire. Use blades and your vampiric Disciplines to combat vampires and other supernaturals more effectively.

Return to the Character Editor often (default key: C) and spend the experience you've gained to improve your character.

Blood packs provide a small amount of blood and healing. While harder to obtain and less potent than fresh blood, blood packs can save you when other sustenance is in short supply.

Bladed weapons are as deadly to vampires as they are to humans. The Defense feat and Lethal soak feat both add to your defense against blades.

Email addressed to you is sent to the computer in your haven. Return to your haven frequently to check your email.

Gehenna Cults: Gehenna cults exist to prepare for, or prevent, the end of the world. Fearing the culmination of the Jyhad and the return of the Antediluvians, the cults prepare either to serve the Ancients (thus hopefully averting their own destruction when the end comes) or to discover the Antediluvians' hidden havens (thus striking preemptively against them and averting Gehenna outright).

Baron: An anarch "prince"; a Kindred who claims a domain but is a member of the Anarch Movement. 

The civilization of the undead is a manipulative and poisonous dance, and few vampires are left entirely untouched. Since the nights of antiquity, the Kindred have struggled for supremacy, in an ancient and many-layered struggle known as the Jyhad. Leaders, cultures, nations and armies have all been pawns in the secret war, and vampiric conspiracies have influenced much of human history. 

Antediluvians: These ancient vampires, if they exist at all, are likely the most powerful creatures in the world. Members of the Third Generation, the Antediluvians are only two steps removed from the First Vampire, Caine.

According to the few fractured accounts of their doings, Antediluvians possess virtually godlike power. According to Kindred legend, there were 13 original Antediluvians, though some have allegedly been destroyed. Their eternal struggle, the Jyhad, touches all Kindred, and innumerable layers of manipulation and deception make the plots of these Ancients almost imperceptible.

Clan Tzimisce: Possessed of a peculiar nobility, coupled with an evil that transcends mortal perception, Clan Tzimisce leads the Sabbat in its rejection of all things human. More so than any other vampires, the Tzimisce revel in their monstrousness. They practice a "fleshcrafting" Discipline that they use to disfigure their foes and sculpt themselves into beings of terrible beauty.

Clan Toreador: Of all the clans, Toreador are the vampires most connected to the mortal world. While other vampires view the kine as pawns or simple sustenance, Toreador glide gracefully and effortlessly through the society of mortals, sampling the delights of each age as a gourmand savors rare delicacies.

Once there were few Caitiff, but the post-WWII period has seen a sharp increase in their numbers. Some elders whisper direfully of the "Time of Thin Blood" that signifies the imminence of Gehenna.

Meetings with demons, immortal mummies, zombie-like walking dead, mystical spirits, shapeshifting animals, sentient gargoyles, angels and less definable entities have been claimed and sometimes documented. The only certainty to emerge from these statements, however, is that the World of Darkness is as terrifying as it is cosmopolitan.

Gehenna, so the Kindred say, will presage the end of the world, as vampires and mortals alike are consumed in an inexorable tide of blood.

Officially, the Camarilla does not recognize the existence of the Antediluvians or Caine. It reasons that these vampires, if they ever existed at all, have long since suffered the Final Death, and those who allude to them are publicly derided.

Unlike the Camarilla, the Sabbat recognizes the existence of the Antediluvians, though it rabidly opposes them. According to Sabbat propaganda, the Antediluvians pull the strings of the entire world, and it is this malignant control they oppose. They see the Camarilla as pawns of the Ancients, and oppose its members politically as well as physically.

Clan Nosferatu: Nosferatu are survivors par excellence. Few creatures, mortal or vampire, know a city's back alleys and dark corners like the Nosferatu do. Additionally, Nosferatu have mastered the crafts of sneaking and eavesdropping; they make a point of keeping up with current gossip and affairs, not merely for pleasure, but for survival. Information brokers without peer, they can command high prices for their knowledge.

Clan Gangrel: Gangrel are fierce warriors. Gangrel ferocity does not stem from anarchic rage, but from animalistic instinct. They are among the most predatory Kindred, and love to lose themselves in the thrill of the hunt. Gangrel have a keen understanding of the Beast in their souls, and prefer to spend their nights in communion with the animals whom they so emulate.

For millennia the Tzimisce have explored and refined their understanding of the vampiric condition, bending their bodies and thoughts into new and alien patterns. Should it prove necessary, enlightening or simply enjoyable, Tzimisce do not hesitate to bend victims in similar fashion. While younger fiends might be described as merciless or sadistic, elders of the line simply fail to comprehend mercy or suffering.

Few things are as they seem in the vampires' nocturnal world; a political coup, economic crash, or social trend may be merely the surface manifestation veiling a centuries-old struggle. Vampire elders command from the shadows, manipulating mortals and other vampires alike - and the elders are often manipulated in turn. Indeed, most combatants may not even realize for whom they fight, or why.

Most Sabbat express bilious contempt for the vampires of the Camarilla, whom they see as cowardly wretches unable to accept their predatory natures.

You can toggle fire modes by using the attack Mode toggle (default key: TAB). Some scoped firearms have multiple levels of zoom that can be accessed by using the alt-fire toggle. Not all firearms have alternate fire modes.

The Feat Adjustment is the difference between your skill (feat score) and the requirement of a weapon. This adjustment is applied to the weapon's Lethality.

Clan Lasombra: Firm believers in the worthy ruling and the unworthy serving, the Clan Lasombra have maintained their ancient traditions even as they direct the Sabbat to their own purposes. Due to their penchant for darkness and control of shadows, the Lasombra cast no reflections. Their careless atrocities lend credence to the idea that it's easier to live with your actions when you don't have to face yourself in the mirror.

The Jyhad: The secret, self-destructive war waged between the generations. Elder vampires manipulate their lessers, using them as pawns in a terrible game whose rules defy comprehension.

Kuei-jin: The Children of Caine have spread throughout the world, but they find themselves thwarted in the Far East by the mysterious Kuei-jin or Cathayan, non-Kindred vampires native to the Orient.

The Kuei-jin seem to have little in common with their Western brethren. Rumors of demonic powers surround these Asian visitors, and their enigmatic behavior and foreign mind-set leave many Western Kindred ill at ease.

The Book of Nod: A loose collection of Kindred legendry and history. The Book of Nod chronicles the origin of the Kindred, though it has never been published in its entirety. Fragments of the document and its many partial transcriptions circulate among certain strata of Kindred society.

The verbal history of the Kindred - though some insist that it is more legendry than history - occupies a position of great reverence in vampire society. The most popular and widely accepted myth is that of Caine, the First Vampire and slayer of his brother. An elusive text known as The Book of Nod chronicles Caine's exile and his subsequent journeys eastward.

Werewolves are universally feared by vampires as ruthless, efficient killers, and more than one vampire claims to have witnessed a single angered werewolf bring down an entire coterie of Kindred. Insular and xenophobic, the werewolves despise the Kindred; the precise reason behind this loathing is unknown, but a vampire caught by a werewolf is assuredly in dire peril.

A woeful modern development, thin-blooded Kindred have appeared in recent years. The blood of Caine is so weak in them that some are rumored to be able to bear the light of the sun and partake in mortal food. Many Kindred scholars look upon the influx of these vampires with fear, remembering passages in The Book of Nod that make reference to the "Time of Thin Blood". This time is said to presage the coming of Gehenna.

Blood Hunt: The precept is simple: Those who break the laws are slain. A vampire who violates the Traditions and brings the wrath of the elders on his head is hunted down and destroyed. All who hear the call are expected to participate and assist. The most common name for this action is the blood hunt.

Fanatics to the last, Sabbat vampires gladly throw themselves into the fire for their sect, falling on their foes in legions, tearing their enemies apart just as a pack of wolves brings down its prey.

Clan Giovanni: The Giovanni are as much a family as they are a clan; the majority of their neonates are Embraced from clan members' mortal descendants. These insular Necromancers avidly pursue two goals: accumulating material wealth, and learning the secrets of Death itself.

The Giovanni are respectable, genteel and well-mannered. Affluent beyond imagination, Clan Giovanni traces its roots back to before the Renaissance, to a family of merchant princes. No other Clan makes such a spectacle of humility and propriety as do the Giovanni. And no other clan hides its blasphemous secrets as well.

According to whispered tales, the Giovanni's money spoiled the family, and they turned to Necromancy out of perverse boredom.

Most Giovanni come from the ranks of the Venetian family and have spent much of their mortal lives as ghouls in service to another family member.

Incest, necrophilia, favor-currying, ancestor worship and carefully cultivated guilt riddle the family; by the time most Giovanni Kindred are Embraced, they've seen more than enough to inure them to the vagaries of undead existence.

The Society of Leopold: The Inquisition exists today, though no official Church records speak of it. The Inquisition of the modern world is known as the Society of Leopold. Many of its members are researchers and occultists, but some are fanatic vampire-hunters who, in true Torquemada-esque fashion, mercilessly root out and destroy the "spawn of Satan". 

Most Inquisitors are fanatic but spottily educated and trained, seldom posing any real threat. Likewise, most Inquisitors are mere mortals, with none of the supernatural powers attributed to saints. A few Inquisitors, though, actually manifest sufficient Faith to repel or even wound the Damned with their holy auras.

In the Middle Ages, an Inquisition-led population alerted to vampires' depredations nearly wiped out the Kindred's millennia-old society. How much more easily, the Inner Circle shudderingly wonders, could a human population of six billion, armed with napalm, phosphorus rounds and nuclear weapons, dispose of the parasites in its midst?

Some Sabbat vampires openly involve in Satanism, paganism, or other deviant faiths to spite the propriety of those who stand against them. Perversion and brutality are the Sabbat's tools, and the sect uses them with merciless cunning.

Composed of several Sabbat vampires, packs ensure their members' loyalty through a requirement that each vampire regularly drinks a mixture of all the other members' blood. Thus mystically bound, Sabbat packs are among the tightest and most vicious groups of vampires in existence.

You've become known as a serial violator of the Masquerade, a threat to all Kindred, and are summoned to account for your transgressions.

