This tool allows you to edit Zipped content included into BSP map files.

These are usually are cubemap texures which generates on map compiling, 
and patched .vmt materials which needs to use generated cubemaps. 
Sometimes different content may be included too, like regular textures, 
models and sounds, and theoretically all other game content types.

Troika Games used crappy manner to include whole .vmt with all keyvalues
to be used for generated cubemaps, and these cubemaps or .vmts are often
have bad settings and appearance. The problem is that we are unable to
manage such materials just by editing them in mod's materials/ subfolders,
because bsp-included ones have higher priority on loading. So, we need to
edit the included bsp's ones either, to force a map to use our edited 
versions instead of included ones - and this is what this tool does. 

It may also help if you're making custom world HD packs or retextures with 
adding of Bump Maps, changing Specular masks, texture scales and so on...

These are command line scripts that are wrappers for BSPZip SDK utility,
which allows to minimize actions on managing that painful cmdline util.
It generally has two parts: "Extract map contents to edit", and "Pack edited 
content back". The intermediate stage, "Fix .vmt files", may save you from
routine works if you only need to unbind included vmts from forced params.

The "Auto-Fix" script is even more easy, and performs all these parts itself,
just drag and drop desired BSP file to this batch, and it will be updated!

Run each one's .bat file to see how to use them. To learn more about how to
*manually* fix crappy included .vmts, follow the "fix vmts info.txt" guide.

P.S.: This tool makes sense for the original game maps only. Bloodlines SDK
have the Editor and map Compilers "cured" from Troika's twists, so once you
compile new map or recompile some existing one, all materials will process
correctly - so you shouldn't care about something was forced in BSP anymore!


// Psycho-A, 30.10.2018